README.md, before:

# Simple AMP (Accelerated Mobile Pages) integration Drupal 8 module

Module requires `composer require lullabot/amp` [https://github.com/Lullabot/amp-library](https://github.com/Lullabot/amp-library)

The module is extendable, there are two components: AmpComponent and AmpMetadata.

Read blog post about this module: [How to implement simple AMP support in Drupal 8](https://www.chapterthree.com/blog/how-implement-simple-amp-support-drupal-8)

This module has been released on Drupal.org, see [Simple AMP](https://goo.gl/UNR6m4) project page.

## How to Use

- Create new `Display Mode` for your entity that will support AMP. New View modes can be created via `/admin/structure/display-modes/view`.
- Enable newly created View mode on entity `Manage Display` page. Example path: `/admin/structure/types/manage/article/display`
- Open Simple AMP Settings page and enable entity type that supports AMP and choose `Display Mode` for it. `/admin/config/services/simple-amp`.
- Hit `Save configuration` and you're all set.

## Theming

- Modify template in `simple_amp/templates/amp.html.twig` to match your design 
- You may also have custom template per content type: `amp--node.html.twig` or `amp--node--article.html.twig`

## Plugins

### AmpComponent

All plugins stored in src/Plugin/AmpComponent/* currently the module doesn't support all available AMP components, but can be easily extended from your own module.

Here is example:

The key variables here are:

- name - plugin name
- default - true/false (when set to TRUE plugin will include javascript from getElement() method to HTML header.
- regexp - array of regular expressions to match in HTML body.

```
<?php

namespace Drupal\simple_amp\Plugin\AmpComponent;

use Drupal\simple_amp\AmpComponentBase;

/**
 * Youtube AMP component.
 *
 * @AmpComponent(
 *   id = "amp-youtube",
 *   name = @Translation("YouTube"),
 *   default = false,
 *   regexp = {
 *     "/<amp\-youtube.*><\/amp\-youtube>/isU",
 *   }
 * )
 */
class Youtube extends AmpComponentBase {

  /**
   * {@inheritdoc}
   */
  public function getElement() {
    return '<script async custom-element="amp-youtube" src="https://cdn.ampproject.org/v0/amp-youtube-0.1.js"></script>';
  }

}
```

### AmpMetadata

All plugins stored in src/Plugin/AmpMetadata/* provide Metadata for specific entity.

Here is example:

The key variables here are:

- entity_types - array of entity type names. This will tell the module to generate AMP Metadata for entity types specified in this variable.

```
<?php

namespace Drupal\simple_amp\Plugin\AmpMetadata;

use Drupal\simple_amp\AmpMetadataBase;
use Drupal\simple_amp\Metadata\Metadata;
use Drupal\simple_amp\Metadata\Author;
use Drupal\simple_amp\Metadata\Publisher;
use Drupal\simple_amp\Metadata\Image;

/**
 * Example AMP metadata component.
 *
 * @AmpMetadata(
 *   id = "default",
 *   entity_types = {
 *     "example_article"
 *   }
 * )
 */
class ExampleEntity extends AmpMetadataBase {

  /**
   * {@inheritdoc}
   */
  public function getMetadata($entity) {
    $metadata = new Metadata();
    $author = (new Author())
      ->setName('Test Author');
    $logo = (new Image())
      ->setUrl('http://url-to-image')
      ->setWidth(400)
      ->setHeight(300);
    $publisher = (new Publisher())
      ->setName('MyWebsite.com')
      ->setLogo($logo);
    $image = (new Image())
      ->setUrl('http://url-to-image')
      ->setWidth(400)
      ->setHeight(300);
    $metadata
      ->setDatePublished($entity->getCreatedTime())
      ->setDateModified($entity->getChangedTime())
      ->setDescription('test')
      ->setAuthor($author)
      ->setPublisher($publisher)
      ->setImage($image);
    return $metadata->build();
  }

}
```

Module developed by [Minnur Yunusov](https://www.minnur.com) at [Chapter Three](https://www.chapterthree.com)

Commit message:

Add UI for AMP components. Add initial configuration settings. Add Soundcloud, JWPlayer support.

README.md, after:

# Simple AMP (Accelerated Mobile Pages) integration Drupal 8 module

Module requires `composer require lullabot/amp` [https://github.com/Lullabot/amp-library](https://github.com/Lullabot/amp-library)

The module is extendable, there are two components: AmpComponent and AmpMetadata.

Read blog post about this module: [How to implement simple AMP support in Drupal 8](https://www.chapterthree.com/blog/how-implement-simple-amp-support-drupal-8)

This module has been released on Drupal.org, see [Simple AMP](https://goo.gl/UNR6m4) project page.

## How to Use

- Create new `Display Mode` for your entity that will support AMP. New View modes can be created via `/admin/structure/display-modes/view`.
- Enable newly created View mode on entity `Manage Display` page. Example path: `/admin/structure/types/manage/article/display`
- Open Simple AMP Entity Types page and enable entity type that supports AMP and choose `Display Mode` for it. `/admin/config/services/simple-amp`.
- Open Components settings page and enable default components. `/admin/config/services/simple-amp/components`.
- Hit `Save configuration` and you're all set.

## URL alias

If you would like to have URL alias in the path /node-alias/amp instead of /node/[nid]/amp please install [Sub-pathauto (Sub-path URL Aliases)](https://www.drupal.org/project/subpathauto)

## Theming

- Modify template in `simple_amp/templates/amp.html.twig` to match your design 
- You may also have custom template per content type: `amp--node.html.twig` or `amp--node--article.html.twig`

## Plugins

### AmpComponent

All plugins stored in src/Plugin/AmpComponent/* currently the module doesn't support all available AMP components, but can be easily extended from your own module.

Here is example:

The key variables here are:

- name - plugin name
- default - true/false (when set to TRUE plugin will include javascript from getElement() method to HTML header.
- regexp - array of regular expressions to match in HTML body.

```
<?php

namespace Drupal\simple_amp\Plugin\AmpComponent;

use Drupal\simple_amp\AmpComponentBase;

/**
 * Youtube AMP component.
 *
 * @AmpComponent(
 *   id = "amp-youtube",
 *   name = @Translation("YouTube"),
 *   default = false,
 *   regexp = {
 *     "/<amp\-youtube.*><\/amp\-youtube>/isU",
 *   }
 * )
 */
class Youtube extends AmpComponentBase {

  /**
   * {@inheritdoc}
   */
  public function getElement() {
    return '<script async custom-element="amp-youtube" src="https://cdn.ampproject.org/v0/amp-youtube-0.1.js"></script>';
  }

}
```

### AmpMetadata

All plugins stored in src/Plugin/AmpMetadata/* provide Metadata for specific entity.

Here is example:

The key variables here are:

- entity_types - array of entity type names. This will tell the module to generate AMP Metadata for entity types specified in this variable.

```
<?php

namespace Drupal\simple_amp\Plugin\AmpMetadata;

use Drupal\simple_amp\AmpMetadataBase;
use Drupal\simple_amp\Metadata\Metadata;
use Drupal\simple_amp\Metadata\Author;
use Drupal\simple_amp\Metadata\Publisher;
use Drupal\simple_amp\Metadata\Image;

/**
 * Example AMP metadata component.
 *
 * @AmpMetadata(
 *   id = "default",
 *   entity_types = {
 *     "example_article"
 *   }
 * )
 */
class ExampleEntity extends AmpMetadataBase {

  /**
   * {@inheritdoc}
   */
  public function getMetadata($entity) {
    $metadata = new Metadata();
    $author = (new Author())
      ->setName('Test Author');
    $logo = (new Image())
      ->setUrl('http://url-to-image')
      ->setWidth(400)
      ->setHeight(300);
    $publisher = (new Publisher())
      ->setName('MyWebsite.com')
      ->setLogo($logo);
    $image = (new Image())
      ->setUrl('http://url-to-image')
      ->setWidth(400)
      ->setHeight(300);
    $metadata
      ->setDatePublished($entity->getCreatedTime())
      ->setDateModified($entity->getChangedTime())
      ->setDescription('test')
      ->setAuthor($author)
      ->setPublisher($publisher)
      ->setImage($image);
    return $metadata->build();
  }

}
```

Module developed by [Minnur Yunusov](https://www.minnur.com) at [Chapter Three](https://www.chapterthree.com)
